you
[Music]
the Golden Girls made its debut on
September 14th 1985 36 years ago today
the series still remains fresh for
generations of new viewers thanks to
create writing and syndicated reruns as
always you're watching how they changed
and here are some things you might not
have known about Dorothy Rose Blanche
and Sophia LeGrande was series creators
using Harris's first choice fedora T
Grant had stored in Harris's short-lived
1970s sitcom Fay ground however was
unenthusiastic about playing grandmother
so the part was eventually offered to be
Arthur fell not immediately and Missy
was against casting Bea Arthur Harris
actually rode the role of Dorothy with
Arthur in mind having worked with the
actress on several episodes of Maude but
then NBC president Brandon Tartikoff was
against the idea stating that Arthur's
cue score a rating system of a
performance audience appeal was too low
she was recognizable but not lovable
thanks to most liberal leanings Broadway
legend Elaine Stritch was a contender
for the part but she Allen aided the
producers by improvising her dialogue
and dropping an f-bomb
during her audition drew McClanahan
pushed the author to pursue the pars Pro
McClanahan gave her reluctant mode
co-star the fan who pushed to convince
her to give the Golden Girls a try
according to McClanahan she found Arthur
and asked her incredulously why are you
going to turn down the best script
that's ever going to come across your
desk as long as you leave Betty White in
rue mcclanahan past the time with word
games Betty White had always been a
fierce competitor when she appeared on
password' back in the day and she found
a kindred spirit in Rimac lennihan when
it came to word games the two ladies
frequently played alphabet games in
between takes throughout the entire day
of taping as to guess he was one year
younger than her TV daughter during the
show's first season too
the makeup department 45 minutes to
transform cassie into sophia petrillo
aging process became even more complex
when get it and up looking even younger
when season 2 began she had had a
facelift during the summer hiatus Yeti
suffered from extreme stage fright
McClenahan record that Getty would seem
to have a black cloud hanging over her
head beginning Thursdays during dress
rehearsals during Friday tapings she
would often freeze on camera she was the
least experienced actress of the four
and it intimidated her in a 1988
interview she stated that working every
week with talent like alpha and white
scared her out of her wits she felt like
a fraud and worried that the fans would
find out that she wasn't as good as her
co-stars McClanahan's favorite episode
was journey to the center of attention
it's the season 7 episode in which
Dorothy uncharacteristically becomes
popular at the rusty anchor launch his
favorite place for meeting men and
McClanahan's requests produces hardcore
iographer and Gregory Scott yarn -
carefully staged the scene where Blanche
seductively sings I want to be loved by
you on top of a grand piano while
encountering one mishap after another
queen elizabeth is a huge Golden Girls
fan the Queen invited the stars of the
show to perform live at 1988 Royal
Variety Performance in London the girls
reenacted - of their kitchen table
scenes the pit of censoring so as not to
offend any royal sensibilities one line
that was surprisingly left intact was
Sophia's introduction to Dorothy's
question - Blanche about how long she
had waited to have sex again after her
husband had died the then 88 year old
Queen Mum was spotted in the rural box
chuckling hot lids of his risk response
until the paramedics came there were
only three chairs at the kitchen table
eagle-eyed fans have noticed over the
years that although there were four
women living in the Miami house who were
always only three chairs around
famous kitchen table there was strictly
due to the limitations of filming to
avoid either squeezing off or
shoulder-to-shoulder or having one
actress with her back to the camera
he was always given the Santa chair both
because of her height and also in order
to catch her priceless facial
expressions the other characters
placement at the table was situation
dependent the placement of the other
characters around the table depended
upon the particular situation in which
character might need to exit the kitchen
on those occasions when all four
characters had to be seated and tools
tool was could adapt to the outskirt of
the conclave the kitchen set was a
hand-me-down speaking of that iconic
kitchen the main reason for its
particular design was that it was a sad
left over from another short-lived
Harris sitcom called it takes to it
starred Richard Crenna and Patty Duke
Astin as a dual career couple he was a
doctor she was a lawyer with two teenage
children dorothy borrowed her last name
from the show stage manager Dorothy's
last name was lifted from Ken's or Nook
who worked at the stage manager for the
show for the entire run of the series
season Harris had worked with Kent
on soap in 1977 and fell in love with
his surname White's favorite episode was
a little romance in these first season
episode Bros is reluctant to introduce
the ladies to her new boyfriend
psychiatrist dr. Tom the new man because
he is and is a person white said that
despite the fact that every short Turk
in the book was used
none of the humor was truly hurtful also
did not have pierced ears all of those
crazy earrings artists was then Golden
Girls stylist Judi Evans gave Dorothy
with clip-ons also loved the dramatic
effect of the jewelry but hated that her
ears were numb with pain by the end of
the day
get he had a phobia about death which
was a definite handicap when staring in
a show about full senior women
it was attribute to get his acting
skills that Sofia always seemed very
nonchalant and effortlessly tails off
quips in funeral home scenes a cleaner
home got to keep lunches clothes
McClanahan had a clause written into her
contract that allowed her to keep all of
Blanche's custom-made clothing she
reportedly had 13 closets full of
designer duds one episode was
autobiographical for Susan Harris the
two-part episode entitled sick and tired
was based on Susan Harris's real-life
struggle with chronic fatigue syndrome
in Dorothy struggle to find a doctor who
would take her symptoms seriously is
still relevant for many women a 2011
study showed that 62 percent of doctors
refered men to cardiologists when they
complained of chest pain and shortness
of breath while less than 30 percent did
the same for their female patients
instead they counseled a woman to take
it easy and prescribed them hunting
citing medications lunches Miami home
was located in Los Angeles even though
the girl whose official address was 61
51 Richmond Street in Miami Florida
the original exterior Shores of
Blanche's house were four home located
at 245 North so to Air Avenue in Los
Angeles California according to real
estate records that 2901 square-foot
house has four bedrooms and four
bathrooms and is valued at a little over
three million dollars the house is still
there but is now surrounded by high
walls and foliage to discourage curious
fans
Dorothy's flat shoes were not Arthur's
personal style the nearly five foot ten
inch actress once stated in an interview
that when she was younger she wished she
could wear heels but that would have
meant towering over most of her days in
high school and later over the actors
she worked with in theater by the time
hide his must no longer concern Arthur
found that she couldn't balance properly
or walk elegantly in even one inch heels
in that's all for now I hope you enjoyed
the episode if so leave a like subscribe
and share this video
take care friends